# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ses/latest/dg/Welcome.html'}

[](/pdfs/ses/latest/dg/ses-dg.pdf#Welcome "Open PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[Amazon Simple Email
Service](/ses/index.html)[Developer Guide](Welcome.html)

BenefitsRelated servicesPricing

# What is Amazon SES?

[Amazon Simple Email Service (SES)](https://aws.amazon.com/ses) is an email
platform that provides an easy, cost-effective way for you to send and receive
email using your own email addresses and domains.

For example, you can send marketing emails such as special offers,
transactional emails such as order confirmations, and other types of
correspondence such as newsletters. When you use Amazon SES to receive mail,
you can develop software solutions such as email autoresponders, email
unsubscribe systems, and applications that generate customer support tickets
from incoming emails.

For more information about topics related to Amazon SES, see the [AWS
Messaging and Targeting Blog](https://aws.amazon.com//blogs/messaging-and-
targeting/).

## Benefits

Building a large-scale email solution is often a complex and costly challenge
for a business. You must deal with infrastructure challenges such as email
server management, network configuration, and IP address reputation.
Additionally, many third-party email solutions require contract and price
negotiations, as well as significant up-front costs. Amazon SES eliminates
these challenges and enables you to benefit from the years of experience and
sophisticated email infrastructure Amazon.com has built to serve its own
large-scale customer base.

## Related services

Amazon SES integrates seamlessly with other AWS products. For example, you
can:

  * Add email-sending capabilities to any application. 

  * You can send email from Amazon EC2 by using an [AWS SDK](https://aws.amazon.com/tools/#sdk), by using the [Amazon SES SMTP interface](./send-email-smtp.html), or by making calls directly to the [Amazon SES API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ses/latest/APIReference/).

  * Use [AWS Elastic Beanstalk](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/) to create an email-enabled application such as a program that uses Amazon SES to send a newsletter to customers.

  * Set up [Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sns/) to notify you of your emails that bounced, produced a complaint, or were successfully delivered to the recipient's mail server. When you use Amazon SES to receive emails, your email content can be published to Amazon SNS topics.

  * Use the AWS Management Console to set up Easy DKIM, which is a way to authenticate your emails. Although you can use Easy DKIM with any DNS provider, it is especially easy to set up when you manage your domain with [Route√Ç 53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/).

  * Control user access to your email sending by using [AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/).

  * Store emails you receive in [Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

  * Take action on your received emails by triggering [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/) functions.

  * Use [AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS)](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/) to optionally encrypt the mail you receive in your Amazon S3 bucket.

  * Use [AWS CloudTrail](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/) to log Amazon SES API calls that you make using the console or the Amazon SES API.

  * Publish your email sending events to [Amazon CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) or [Amazon Data Firehose](https://aws.amazon.com/firehose/). If you publish your email sending events to Firehose, you can access them in [Amazon Redshift](https://aws.amazon.com/redshift/), [Amazon OpenSearch Service](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticsearch-service/), or [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

## Pricing

With Amazon SES, you pay based on the volume of emails sent and received. For
more information, see [Amazon SES
pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/pricing/).

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Regions

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

